[THEME MUSIC]
>>JAY WEIDNER: Hey, everybody.
I'm Jay Weidner.
You're watching
"Cosmic Disclosure."
And we are back with Jason Rice.
Hey, Jason.
How you doing?
>>JASON RICE: Doing great, Jay.
Thank you for having me.
>>JAY: Yeah, we're going to get
into some interesting questions
here today.
What I'd like to know is--
I guess we'll start on Planet
One, the first planet you
went to.
What are like the social customs
on the planet between sexes
and between people?
Are they similar to ours?
Or are they different or what?
>>RICE: The social structure of
the areas where people were--
because it wasn't a single
planetary government
upon our arrival, each
of their respective areas
had their own customs
and their own systems
of belief and governance.
So the areas that
I'm familiar with--
their method of governing was
based on a guild clan system.
So what that means
is that for each
of the different
trades that they had,
those trades would alternate
through a position of who's
in charge, basically, for
that city or that region.
And what it did was
it allowed for sharing
of that responsibility
amongst the different groups.
And so what you had
was a natural balance
in which one trade or guild
wouldn't try to take advantage
while they were in power.
Because in less than the
equivalent of a year,
somebody else is
going to be there.
And so it allowed them to
equally share amongst--
what's the best
for the community.
And it worked out very well
for the areas that we're in.
So from a control standpoint
and our governance standpoint,
it was a rotating position
that essentially they
had established.
Now, from a social structure,
each of the families
generally stayed along the
same guild trade occupation.
And what you ended up
with is a family that--
and that's the other
thing is that families--
when they were bonding,
when they had a bond,
what we would consider to
be a marriage-- although,
they didn't call it that--
that couple would move in
with the bride's family.
And so they had
compounds in which
it was a multi-generational
association right there.
And so people had their
own private spaces,
but they were all right there.
They would have
their space over here
for those kids, space
over here for those kids.
And they would expand
it if they needed to.
But you ended up with
multi-generational groups,
usually within the same
trade or the same guild that
lived on the same property.
>>JAY: That's interesting
that they would
go with the bride's family.
>>RICE: I thought
that same thing.
>>JAY: So is it matriarchal?
>>RICE: No, not necessarily.
It was shared between both
matriarch and patriarch.
And so I think by going
with the matriarchal family,
it helped to encourage
that sharing.
Because it wasn't necessarily
one over the other.
Because there weren't
any jobs or occupations
that were blocked based on sex.
And so you'd have women
that were doing everything
that the men were doing.
And so it allowed them to keep
a better balance, if you will.
>>JAY: So if you had
a heavy-lifting guild,
some guild like carpenters
that lift big beams,
the women would be right
there with the men?
>>RICE: Mm-hmm.
They would be right
there with them.
>>JAY: And these are humanoids?
>>RICE: They were humanoids.
They were a little smaller
than in Western or European
humanoids, probably on par with
some of the size of a smaller
Asian culture.
>>JAY: Southeast Asians?
Yeah.
>>RICE: Yeah.
So they were a little smaller.
But proportionally, were--
>>JAY: Same?
>>RICE: --the same.
>>JAY: And they had
sexes-- two sexes?
>>RICE: Yep.
>>JAY: Did they fall in
love with each other?
>>RICE: They did.
And they also had a version
of what we would consider
to be arranged marriages.
Now, commonly what
comes to mind when
you think of an
arranged marriage
is somebody is being
forced to do something
that they don't want to do.
And that was not
the case from what
I experienced or saw
on Planet One in that,
yes, they were arranged.
Because you had
certain families that
wanted to improve the reach or
the bond with another family.
But ultimately, it came down to
veto power of the individuals.
So if they said no way,
then it wasn't happening.
>>JAY: So if you
had a guild of--
I don't know-- auto mechanics.
And the girl, the young
woman, brings a man
in from the outside into the
family, which is the custom,
is he also an auto
mechanic, or a carpenter,
or whatever the guild is?
Or does he learn that guild?
>>RICE: Not necessarily.
Part of the education
system that they have
involves a creche
type in which children
will learn from their own
family the trades that they
are involved with.
But then what they
would also do is
they wouldn't spend all
of their formative years
just learning that one thing.
They would rotate.
And it did several things.
It allowed for a sharing
of their responsibilities,
so that one person wasn't
always responsible for educating
a child.
It ended up allowing
them to have children
that rotated through
different trades,
and so that they could focus
on things that they really
enjoyed and were good at.
And through experiencing
those things,
they were able to get the
exposure to find out, hey,
I never thought I was a good
fisherman until I went over
to Joe's place.
And guess what?
Now, I'm a good fisherman.
>>JAY: So the educational
system was really
having the kids move around
through the guilds learning
the different skill sets?
>>RICE: Yes.
>>JAY: Gotcha.
And it also provided
them with backup.
In case the event
of illness or death,
they had people
that were trained
in doing all the basics
of the various guilds,
so that they could
then say, OK, hey,
we need somebody to
come help out with X.
And then they'd have people that
had all gone through training
in how to do whatever that was.
>>JAY: And then marriage?
Was there a marriage ceremony?
>>RICE: There was
a bonding ceremony.
They didn't go down to the
justice of the peace and sign
documents.
They had a ceremony in which
they signified the bonding
of the two families.
>>JAY: Was there
any interactions
between the different
groups on a formal basis?
>>RICE: There were.
There were some
outlying villages
that because of their size
or because of their isolation
didn't have as developed
a social network
system as some of the
larger cities like Area 26.
So some of the
outlying villages may
have had four or five
families, instead of 4 or 500,
or 1,000 families.
And so you would have shared
resources in which, OK,
they wanted to take their goods
and services into the big city
and then trade for
supplies, or materials,
or whatever it was that they
couldn't manufacture, or make,
or produce, or find themselves.
On Planet One, they hadn't
known conflict or war
for generations.
They had one area on
the planet that there
were weapons that were still
being manufactured and more
of a hobby than anything else.
>>JAY: Were there hospitals
or any kind of medical staff
available for the people?
Or did they just take
care of themselves?
>>RICE: There was a
shaman-like guild that
was in charge of taking
care of growing herbs,
spices, things that they
used for medicinal purposes.
So the large cities had these
particular guilds spread out
in key areas, so that the
people were able to best benefit
from those skills.
>>JAY: So if you broke your
arm, where would you go?
>>RICE: You'd go down
to the equivalent
of a clinic on a street corner.
Because the families
lived on the same compound
where they had their businesses,
their guilds, their trades.
So you would go to the trade
that was the medical trade.
>>JAY: Right.
Were there books?
Do they read?
>>RICE: They had books.
They had their own
written language.
They had their
own developed art.
In fact, all throughout the
city, Area 26, there was art.
Because the city was built
with a very extensive canal
system similar to
what you would see
in modern Holland,
in which they had
a combination of small roadways
where it was large enough
to push a cart or to walk.
And then next to it was a canal.
And so the bulkier,
heavier, larger shipments
of goods and material
was done on the canal,
because it was a lot easier to
move things around on a boat.
>>JAY: Do they use work animals?
>>RICE: No.
>>JAY: No work animals?
>>RICE: No work animals.
>>JAY: So how did they
move their carts around?
>>RICE: They pushed them.
>>JAY: They pushed them?
>>RICE: Mm-hmm.
>>JAY: So it's a pretty
low-level technology
here on this planet.
>>RICE: It was, not including
the artificial light source.
But yeah, they were
more interested
in their daily
day-to-day activities
than they were in progressing
or improving their technologies.
>>JAY: What do they
do for entertainment?
>>RICE: They had games
that they played,
an equivalent of Kick
the Can, or throwing
a ball through a hoop,
or even something
very similar to checkers,
strangely enough.
So I mean, everything
from singing to they
had some musical instruments.
>>JAY: What kind of
musical instrument?
>>RICE: One of them was very
similar to a lute-guitar.
Another one that drums.
I don't think you can
find any civilization that
doesn't have some kind of drum.
They had their own.
>>JAY: Were they good?
Were their musicians
really good?
>>RICE: The ones that I heard--
yeah.
Yeah, the developed and mature
guilds, that they were--
they'd studied, and practiced,
and worked on everything
from art.
Some of the guilds were
dedicated to music.
>>JAY: So if I was born
into a carpenter's guild,
but I really wanted
to play the lute,
was I stuck being a carpenter
or could I go to another guild?
>>RICE: No.
There was a number of instances
where the interplay like that
was allowed.
If the family was not able
to give up those extra hands,
then they would work to
finding a replacement.
And that's usually
where arranged
relationships came into play.
>>JAY: I see.
I got you now.
>>RICE: So it wasn't,
no, you can't do it,
because we need you
here on the farm.
It was, OK, well--
they would work together
to find a solution
on how to make that happen.
Because part of
their culture was
the pursuit of the individual's
skills along with what
they liked doing.
>>JAY: Was there any
kind of confrontation
between different
kinds of people?
Is there any kind of
clan rivalry going on?
>>RICE: The last time something
like that had occurred
was three generations
before our arrival.
So they had lived peacefully and
cooperatively for a long time
before we got there,
before the invasion.
>>JAY: How about law
enforcement, jails, courts,
prosecutors, lawyers?
>>RICE: No, none
of that nonsense.
>>JAY: What if I broke a law?
What would happen to me?
>>RICE: The people
that broke laws--
the consequences of such
were a group decision
by the governing
council, if you will.
Each of the trade unions
or the clans, the guilds
had representatives.
So each guild was a
microcosm of the larger city.
So within each guild, you have,
again, leadership positions
that rotate.
And so you have a governing
council, if you will,
of each of the guilds.
And that governing
council meets together
with other governing councils.
And so if someone broke a law--
or there was no need
to steal something.
Because if you needed
it, you made something
that you were familiar
with how to make.
And then you found somebody
that was willing to trade.
>>JAY: And what about
crimes of passion?
>>RICE: They may have existed.
I was not aware of any
during our times there.
That changed as the
war came and developed.
And over the period
of the war, they--
when we first arrived--
had an alcohol--
one alcoholic drink.
And it was like a
fermented wine of sorts.
By the time the war had ended--
because of the interactions
with Earth humans
and the knowledge that was
brought with Earth humans
about distillation and
additional fermentation,
they ended up having
a larger variety.
Because the Earth forces that
were there wanted to have that.
And of course, they got
interested and, oh, wow,
this is another
alcoholic beverage.
>>JAY: Did alcoholism
begin then?
>>RICE: When I left,
it had not, simply,
I think, because of the
fact that it comes down
to brutal simplicity.
Those that are able to move and
fight were required to fight.
And that doesn't
leave much time for--
>>JAY: For partying.
>>RICE: --partying or
extracurricular activities.
>>JAY: Did they have any
kind of drug problems?
>>RICE: No.
This planet did have
its own marijuana
analog that was used
during ceremonial events.
>>JAY: I was just
going to get at that.
Do they have any
psychedelic plants?
Anything like that
they would use?
>>RICE: The marijuana analog
that they used on Planet One
was mildly hallucinogenic.
And its uses were limited
to spiritual ceremonies.
And as far as any
other drugs that--
I didn't come across any
others that they had used.
That was the only one.
>>JAY: Did you witness any of
their spiritual ceremonies?
>>RICE: I was able to
witness a bonding ceremony.
And once the invasion
began, a lot of that
had to take a backseat,
because of the preparations
to clean up.
>>JAY: What have you
learned from being
with this other
civilization that you think
we can draw from here on Earth?
Is there anything?
>>RICE: Oh, there's
a bunch of things.
>>JAY: Yeah?
Like what?
>>RICE: Like we don't need
a fiat currency system.
>>JAY: They do not
have a currency?
>>RICE: They did not
have a currency system.
Their currency were
their products, goods,
and their time.
>>JAY: Interesting.
So then they would never--
>>RICE: Native
Americans didn't use it
for how many thousands of years?
They didn't have a
fiat currency system.
Currency is
established as a means
to organize and coordinate
the distribution
and use of resources.
That's the only
reason for a currency.
And if you have an alternative
to a fiat currency system,
then the fiat currency
system is pointless.
>>JAY: So just barter and trade?
That's how they governed?
>>RICE: That was
how they did it.
>>JAY: Any other
things that they
have that we should be doing?
>>RICE: I think the integration
of a geo-power system into each
home is also a
fantastic thing that--
hey, who wouldn't like to have
a elimination of their power
though.
>>JAY: Every single
house on this planet
had its own power source?
>>RICE: At least one of the
buildings on each of the family
compounds.
Yes.
>>JAY: So you say that
they're a civilization that's
a little bit backwards from
us, maybe like a hundred years
ago or so.
>>RICE: Sure.
>>JAY: But we had rudimentary
electricity a hundred years ago
in the United States, but
we didn't use it for much
at the time, outside of
lighting, and running
the radios, and all that.
What do they use their
power system for?
How did they use it?
And why didn't they invent
stuff that would help
them push the carts and things?
>>RICE: Sure.
And that's a great question.
Why didn't they develop
higher technology,
more advanced technology?
And when I asked
them this question,
they didn't see a need to.
They used the electricity
for artificial light
within the main dwelling on each
of their property or compound.
And from that point, for
me, they cooked with fire.
They had something very similar
to a wood-burning stove.
If they needed to put something
in an oven, which they
did bake things,
they had a Dutch oven
that they would use with
a wood-burning stove.
The whole alien aspect
of this is that they
don't think like we do.
Humanity looks at
technology as, OK,
where's the next great thing?
How can we improve on and
change XY and Z to come up
with a better mousetrap?
Their philosophy was based
on the day-to-day activities
and putting as much of
themselves into that,
rather than trying to change it.
>>JAY: Did you ever witness
any type of slavery or coercion
of another person to do labor
for free on this planet?
>>RICE: On Planet One, or
Planet Two, Calidus Three--
no.
The only experience
that I had where
there was something
close to forced labor
was on Planet Three.
Planet Three was
the only place that
had an organized crime element.
Planet One, or Planet
Two, Calidus Three--
neither of those had any forced
labor instances or examples
that I'd see.
>>JAY: The famous
anthropologist, Margaret Mead,
pointed out that anytime
that Western civilization,
whether it be
troops, or doctors,
or whatever would come into
a non-developed country,
that presence, just the presence
alone would change that culture
usually for the worse.
That must have happened--
>>RICE: Of course.
>>JAY: --on these planets.
What happened after
you guys were there?
What kind of effects
did you have?
>>RICE: Well, we
weren't on planet
as long as we had hoped to be
before the invasion started.
The operation plan called
for 12 to 18 months
of intel gathering,
of getting familiar
with the local operators,
the local people,
inserting ourselves
into those societies,
so that we could develop
positive relationships
with them.
So that period of preparation--
we weren't allowed to
finish, because the invasion
came early.
The long-term effects
on those societies
were absolutely devastating.
No doubt about it.
>>JAY: In what way?
>>RICE: Well, for
the larger cities
where there were thousands
of people already,
we would see them as being
more open to alternatives,
because they had more
examples of culture.
The small villages that were
out in the middle of nowhere,
where there was only
four or five families
and their life on
a daily basis was
all about survival and
continuing on with children
and grandchildren.
They had their own version of
art and the expression of that.
But it was different than
a large-- one of the larger
population centers.
What kind of
effects did it have?
>>JAY: Well, the war must have
had certainly a large effect.
>>RICE: It had a
tremendous effect
on the people themselves.
Exposure to that
kind of devastation,
and destruction, and death
changes a civilization.
And theirs was no
exception from that.
When the war came,
what happened is
that we started
bringing in people
from the remote villages,
because they were completely
exposed for one thing.
And there was no way that
they could defend themselves.
And so another
aspect of that was
that we needed to have
full participation of all
the peoples, so
that we could mount
a defense against the invasion.
And so in a certain respect,
most of the villages
were willing to come in.
I didn't come across any
villages that openly fought it.
But there were villages
and locations in which
people didn't want to leave.
They didn't care.
>>JAY: Did you ever
do anything that you
regretted to those people?
>>RICE: No.
>>JAY: You didn't?
>>RICE: Hmm-mm.
>>JAY: Do you know
anybody that did things?
>>RICE: I would say that--
let me amend that.
Looking back,
wishing that I could
have helped more certainly
falls into that category--
>>JAY: Sure.
>>RICE: --in that, do I
wish that their civilization
and their culture didn't have
to become homogenized as a need
for fighting the war?
Yeah, certainly.
>>JAY: What were the effects
of this homogenation?
>>RICE: Elimination
of certain cultures.
>>JAY: And probably skills, too.
>>RICE: Skill sets.
>>JAY: Did you guys
introduce high technology
into this situation?
>>RICE: On Planet One when
we left that deployment,
I was not able to
participate in the rebuilding
efforts of Planet One
after the war was over.
So I can't answer
it for that one.
For Planet Two-- and
again, all the way
through the wars for
Planet One and Planet Two,
the whole concept
was we don't want
to use our advanced
technology, because we
don't want to poison
them, which turned out
to be an absolute propaganda.
Because when I went
back to Calidus Three
to help with the rebuilding
efforts in the 30 or so months
that I was gone, it
had transformed from,
no, we don't want to
poison their civilization
with too much technology.
Transform from that
to, how quickly
and how much can we grow this
civilization into a spacefaring
society?
It was a 180-degree change.
And I'm convinced that that was
the intent all along, again,
playing into, how do we force
every person on the planet
to buy in and
consent to whatever
it is that we're requiring?
Well, by killing
off a lot of people
and forcing them to-- in
order to survive, having
to give in to certain things.
And part of that plan was
the limitation of technology,
because that would
have saved more lives.
So the command structure
didn't allow us to use that
and saying all the
whole time-- lying
that it was because
they didn't want
to poison the civilization.
No, it's they wanted
to control how much
and how many people were lost.
And so once the war was
over and I went back
to help with the rebuilding
efforts, it was open season.
I helped with the
establishment of one
of their orbital platforms, one
of their first orbital cities.
So you go from holding
back and withholding
advanced technologies
to, let's help
you develop as
quickly as you can
which, of course,
is going to destroy
any of the society and
civilization culture
that they had.
>>JAY: Was that the point?
>>RICE: Yeah.
>>JAY: That's the point.
>>RICE: That was the point.
>>JAY: The whole point was
actually to ruin their society.
>>RICE: To bring it into a
single-ruled, one government
system in which overall control
could be wielded against.
>>JAY: So essentially, when
you arrived at these planets,
you brought the entire
future to them immediately.
They didn't have any chance
to progress like we do.
They just got
everything at once,
and that had to be
psychologically debilitating.
>>RICE: Of course.
I mean, suddenly there
are seedy establishments.
>>JAY: Prostitution?
>>RICE: Yeah.
>>JAY: Really?
They had progressed
to a point where
that was one of the
businesses that had developed.
>>JAY: Was there any
unusual family arrangements
that you witnessed
on any other planets?
>>RICE: That's a
great question, Jay.
On Calidus Three,
the social structure
of each of their
families were such
that you would have anywhere
from one couple to four couples
that were considered a family.
And so it wasn't like
conventional polygamy
as we would see it.
Because each person--
an individual
was considered to be equal.
And so you would have,
say, three couples
in which the male
part of couple one
considered himself to be
bonded with or in our terms
married to the individuals
of couple two and three.
Now, these weren't the
sexual relationship such
that it was only a
heterosexual relationship.
But the bonding of
those couples were such
that they considered all of
the individuals to be their--
what we call a
husband or a wife.
And so it--
>>JAY: And what would be
the advantage of this?
>>RICE: The
advantages that I saw
was that they were able to
really take the-- it takes
a village to raise a family
to the next level in the sense
that all of the
individuals were involved,
even if only one
couple had kids.
>>JAY: I gotcha.
All the kids had
multiple parents.
>>RICE: Yeah-- had multiple
parents with multiple careers
or varying degrees of--
and this is what they
do for their living.
And so, yes, they had
that support structure.
>>JAY: Is there anything
on Earth that's taboo,
that's accepted by any of these
other cultures, like something
here that we would not allow
that they were OK with?
>>RICE: I think some
of the child labor
that they encouraged
and fostered.
Many in Western civilization
would look at as--
that's child labor slavery.
Don't do that.
Well, part of their culture
was training the kids.
Now, they cared for them.
They didn't want
to endanger them.
So if it involves getting
up to the top of a mast
on a sailing ship so that they
could fix something up there,
that's not something
you send a kid to do.
But I think perhaps that's
one of the things that
would be looked down upon.
>>JAY: But if you looked at
rural America a hundred years
ago, I think--
>>RICE: Oh, yeah.
>>JAY: --those children today--
we would say that was running
those kids ragged--
>>RICE: Sure.
>>JAY: --6:00 in the
morning till late at night,
working on the farm.
Very famous for that.
And so it depends on your
culture and where you're at.
So if you're a rural
culture, you're
going to be working a lot.
>>RICE: Yes.
>>JAY: If you're an urban
culture, not so much.
>>RICE: Yep.
>>JAY: So they never sent the
kids off to school or anything
like that.
>>RICE: On Planet One,
the school for children
was the process of rotating
through the different guilds
and learning the trades.
They had established academics,
if you want to call it that--
those that knew the written
language and could read some
of their ancestors'
written languages.
>>JAY: So there were scholars.
And there were college--
something like a higher
institution for people
who had known abilities to--
>>RICE: No, actually,
there wasn't.
Any of the higher
education would
have come from the academics,
the scholar's guild.
>>JAY: I see.
>>RICE: And so philosophy,
or history, or--
>>JAY: Art.
>>RICE: --art is included
or sub-categories of that.
>>JAY: Was there more
than one language
or was there just one language?
>>RICE: There was more
than one language--
the Area 26 that I spent
a large amount of time in.
There were also
some remote villages
relatively close to Area 26.
During the consolidation phase,
opening phases of the war,
we redeployed to
certain arctic areas
to try and help with
the relocation of people
from those areas to
defensible positions,
so that they could be
protected as much as we could.
They had different
languages there.
>>JAY: Besides
being aware of you,
are these people on these
other planets aware that there
is this whole galaxy
of beings around them?
>>RICE: Before our arrival?
>>JAY: Yeah.
>>RICE: No.
>>JAY: They're just isolated?
>>RICE: Isolated.
Adopted-- their sun, or moon,
or wind gods were the ones.
>>JAY: What's your
takeaway from interacting
with these other civilizations?
What would you like
us to learn from them?
>>RICE: I would say that
preservation of a culture
requires certain boundaries.
And that's not bad.
If you go on the
premise that we are but
a thought that occurs in the
mind of God, in which this
is an opportunity
for God to experience
himself and experience life in
the many, many, many multitudes
that exist, having
separate cultures
allows for that expression.
Because if you end up with
the same cookie-cut experience
every time, you're not
getting a varied experience.
You're having the same
experience a thousand times,
instead of a
thousand experiences.
I would say, Jay, that my
takeaway from my own experience
is that preserving
the unique cultures
may require having boundaries.
And whether those are physical
or figurative boundaries--
there's nothing wrong with that.
>>JAY: Thanks, Jason,
for being on the show.
>>RICE: And thank you,
Jay, for having me.
As you know, this is all
about full disclosure.
>>JAY: It is.
And I'm Jay Weidner.
And you've been watching
"Cosmic Disclosure."
>> Coming this season
on "Cosmic Disclosure"
where people share their
clandestine involvement with
government agencies,
the military,
and secret space programs.
>> They have special
physics, and energies,
and sciences that we don't
understand yet that can help
the Earth heal itself.
>>RICE: If they remain on that
path of becoming mostly machine
and partly live
being, then they are
handing over their free
will and relinquishing it
to being controlled.
[THEME MUSIC]